README.md, before:

# wisa2mqtt: WiSA SoundSend MQTT bridge

The WiSA SoundSend wireless audio transmitter comes with an official smartphone
app to control its settings through Bluetooth Low Energy.

Do you own a SoundSend and do you feel limited by the official app?
Want to integrate your SoundSend with external systems and devices such as
Home Assistant or infrared control? Then you might like wisa2mqtt.

wisa2mqtt maintains a persistent BLE connection with a SoundSend device, and
exposes its most important settings through MQTT.

Bonus benefit: because the SoundSend only supports a single (insecure) BLE
connection and wisa2mqtt keeps it occupied, it prevents your neighbors from
easily taking control of your SoundSend.

## Setup

Install dependencies using npm or a compatible utility.

Set the following environment variables:

* `MQTT_URI`: Connection string for your MQTT broker, for example
  `mqtts://user:pass@mybroker.org`.
* `SOUNDSEND_ADDRESS`: BLE device address of your SoundSend in
  `AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF` notation. Find this using a BLE scanning app.

Then, simply run `node .` in this directory.

### Advanced: multiple brokers

Use multiple MQTT environment variables with different suffixes
(e.g. `MQTT_URI_A`, `MQTT_URI_B`) to connect to all of them. Status updates
will be published to all brokers, and commands are accepted from any broker.

## MQTT interface

wisa2mqtt publishes on the topic prefix `wisa2mqtt/status/+` and subscribes
to the prefix `wisa2mqtt/command/+`.

### Status topics

* `alive`: `true` when SoundSend connection is established, `false`
  when SoundSend/MQTT connection is lost or when wisa2mqtt exits. Note that
  wisa2mqtt will automatically attempt to reconnect in case of connection loss.
* `volume`: current volume level, range 0-100.
* `audiomode`: current DSP mode setting, either
  `direct`, `movie`, `music` or `night`.
* `audiosource`: current audio source setting, either `arc` or `optical`.
* `audioformat`: audio codec detected by the SoundSend, either `none`, `pcm`,
  `ac3`, `eac3`, `truehd` or `atmos`. Update interval is can vary in practice,
  but should be at least a couple of times per minute.
* `power`: `true` when SoundSend is in power-on mode, `false` when in standby mode
* `bassmanagement`: `true` when [bass management][1] feature is on, `false` when off

### Command topics

Commands with payload:

* `setsource`: set the audio source to `arc` or `optical`.
* `setvolume`: set volume to the given level (0-100).
* `volumeup`: increase volume by the given amount (clipping at 100).
* `volumedown`: decrease volume by the given amount (clipping at 0).
* `setaudiomode`: set DSP mode to `direct`, `movie`, `music` or `night`.
* `setpower`: `true` to power on, `false` to enter standby
* `setbassmanagement`: `true` to turn on [bass management][1] feature, `false` to turn off

Commands that ignore payload:

* `nextsource`: cycle to the next available audio source.
* `mute`: set volume to 0 until unmuted.
* `unmute`: restore volume to the original level before muting.
* `togglemute`: mute if unmuted, unmute if muted.
* `nextaudiomode`: cycle to the next available DSP mode.
* `togglepower`: switch between power-on and standby
* `togglebassmanagement`: toggle [bass management][1] feature

[1]: https://support.wisatechnologies.com/hc/en-us/articles/5334448143131-Bass-Management

## Integrations

See the `integration` directory for examples of how to run wisa2mqtt using
systemd, and how to integrate it with Home Assistant and triggerhappy.

## Disclaimer

WiSA® is a trademark of WiSA, LLC.

This software is a hobby project. The author is not affiliated in any way with
WiSA, LLC., WiSA Technologies, Inc., or the WiSA Association.

Commit message:

Allow configuration of Bluetooth adapter

README.md, after:

# wisa2mqtt: WiSA SoundSend MQTT bridge

The WiSA SoundSend wireless audio transmitter comes with an official smartphone
app to control its settings through Bluetooth Low Energy.

Do you own a SoundSend and do you feel limited by the official app?
Want to integrate your SoundSend with external systems and devices such as
Home Assistant or infrared control? Then you might like wisa2mqtt.

wisa2mqtt maintains a persistent BLE connection with a SoundSend device, and
exposes its most important settings through MQTT.

Bonus benefit: because the SoundSend only supports a single (insecure) BLE
connection and wisa2mqtt keeps it occupied, it prevents your neighbors from
easily taking control of your SoundSend.

## Setup

Install dependencies using npm or a compatible utility.

Set the following environment variables:

* `MQTT_URI`: Connection string for your MQTT broker, for example
  `mqtts://user:pass@mybroker.org`.
* `SOUNDSEND_ADDRESS`: BLE device address of your SoundSend in
  `AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF` notation. Find this using a BLE scanning app.

And optionally:

* `BLUETOOTH_ADAPTER`: Name of specific Bluetooth adapter to use,
  for example `hci0`.

Then, simply run `node .` in this directory.

### Advanced: multiple brokers

Use multiple MQTT environment variables with different suffixes
(e.g. `MQTT_URI_A`, `MQTT_URI_B`) to connect to all of them. Status updates
will be published to all brokers, and commands are accepted from any broker.

## MQTT interface

wisa2mqtt publishes on the topic prefix `wisa2mqtt/status/+` and subscribes
to the prefix `wisa2mqtt/command/+`.

### Status topics

* `alive`: `true` when SoundSend connection is established, `false`
  when SoundSend/MQTT connection is lost or when wisa2mqtt exits. Note that
  wisa2mqtt will automatically attempt to reconnect in case of connection loss.
* `volume`: current volume level, range 0-100.
* `audiomode`: current DSP mode setting, either
  `direct`, `movie`, `music` or `night`.
* `audiosource`: current audio source setting, either `arc` or `optical`.
* `audioformat`: audio codec detected by the SoundSend, either `none`, `pcm`,
  `ac3`, `eac3`, `truehd` or `atmos`. Update interval is can vary in practice,
  but should be at least a couple of times per minute.
* `power`: `true` when SoundSend is in power-on mode, `false` when in standby mode
* `bassmanagement`: `true` when [bass management][1] feature is on, `false` when off

### Command topics

Commands with payload:

* `setsource`: set the audio source to `arc` or `optical`.
* `setvolume`: set volume to the given level (0-100).
* `volumeup`: increase volume by the given amount (clipping at 100).
* `volumedown`: decrease volume by the given amount (clipping at 0).
* `setaudiomode`: set DSP mode to `direct`, `movie`, `music` or `night`.
* `setpower`: `true` to power on, `false` to enter standby
* `setbassmanagement`: `true` to turn on [bass management][1] feature, `false` to turn off

Commands that ignore payload:

* `nextsource`: cycle to the next available audio source.
* `mute`: set volume to 0 until unmuted.
* `unmute`: restore volume to the original level before muting.
* `togglemute`: mute if unmuted, unmute if muted.
* `nextaudiomode`: cycle to the next available DSP mode.
* `togglepower`: switch between power-on and standby
* `togglebassmanagement`: toggle [bass management][1] feature

[1]: https://support.wisatechnologies.com/hc/en-us/articles/5334448143131-Bass-Management

## Integrations

See the `integration` directory for examples of how to run wisa2mqtt using
systemd, and how to integrate it with Home Assistant and triggerhappy.

## Disclaimer

WiSA® is a trademark of WiSA, LLC.

This software is a hobby project. The author is not affiliated in any way with
WiSA, LLC., WiSA Technologies, Inc., or the WiSA Association.
